public/journal/week42-25.md, before:

---
week: "Week 42"
year: "2025"
title: "Building Scalable Microservices"
date: "October 13, 2025"
tags: ["Spring Boot", "Docker", "Microservices", "AWS", "DevOps"]
---

## Monday, October 13 | Microservices Architecture Planning

Started the week by designing the architecture for our new microservices-based system. Spent time researching best practices for service decomposition and identifying bounded contexts within our monolithic application. Created initial diagrams showing service boundaries, API contracts, and data ownership patterns.

## Tuesday, October 14 | Spring Boot Service Development

Built the first microservice using Spring Boot. Implemented REST endpoints with proper error handling and validation. Set up Spring Cloud Config for externalized configuration management. Added Actuator endpoints for health checks and monitoring. The service is lightweight and starts up in under 3 seconds.

## Wednesday, October 15 | Service Discovery with Eureka

Implemented Netflix Eureka for service discovery. This eliminates the need for hardcoded service URLs and enables dynamic scaling. Each microservice now registers itself with the Eureka server on startup. Tested failover scenarios and verified that services can discover each other reliably.

## Thursday, October 16 | Containerization with Docker

Dockerized all microservices with multi-stage builds to optimize image sizes. Created Docker Compose files for local development environment setup. Implemented health checks in Dockerfiles and configured resource limits. The entire stack can now be spun up locally with a single command.

## Friday, October 17 | API Gateway Implementation

Set up Spring Cloud Gateway as the entry point for all client requests. Configured routing rules, rate limiting, and circuit breakers. Implemented JWT authentication at the gateway level. Added request/response logging for debugging. The gateway provides a unified interface while hiding the complexity of our microservices architecture.

## Weekend Reflection | Key Learnings & Next Steps

This week was incredibly productive. Moving from a monolithic architecture to microservices requires careful planning, but the benefits are already evident - independent deployment, better scalability, and technology flexibility. Next week, I'll focus on implementing inter-service communication patterns, adding distributed tracing with Zipkin, and deploying to AWS ECS.

---

## Key Takeaways

- Service decomposition requires deep domain knowledge and careful planning
- Spring Cloud ecosystem provides excellent tools for building microservices
- Docker greatly simplifies development environment setup and deployment
- API Gateway is essential for managing cross-cutting concerns
- Distributed systems introduce new challenges like network latency and fault tolerance

---

## Technologies Used

**Spring Boot** - Microservice framework
**Spring Cloud** - Service discovery & configuration
**Docker** - Containerization
**Eureka** - Service registry
**Spring Cloud Gateway** - API Gateway

Commit message:

Add Journal entry and clean up code

public/journal/week42-25.md, after:

## Mon, Oct 13 | Scaling in Software Systems 
System Design is the core for Software Engineering. It is asked during interviews. SDEs have been asked about designing chat-GPT and leetcode. 

I started studying 'System Design Interview - An Insider's Guide by Alex Wu'. I got through the first chapter - where I learnt about vertical and horizontal scaling, Load balancers, load and response times, web tier, cache tier, CDNs,caching policies,  Database scaling, Redundancy in databases, Sharding, read replicas, leader-follower architecture, Single point of failure, CAP theorem, consistent Hashing, types of NoSQL databases, Data centers, stateful and stateless servers, Geo DNS, Messaging queues,  Error logging, monitoring and continuous Integration. 

I knew a lot of it from my time spent on Google cloud as well as just being a developer.  This was a great and comprehensive introduction. This was a very bird’s eye POV chapter. I have many questions - like how do you decide on the number of read replicas, how do software engineers choose between AP, CP or CA databases for their application. I am looking forward to the future chapters. 


## Tue, Oct 14 | Dynamic Routes, Parsing Mark down files and React 

My personal website is a static website. I built it to find a job fast. I thought of journaling my daily learnings as a way of bringing clarity, daily motivation and celebration. 
I wanted to add a weekly entry. To create a new webpage for every week is non-scalable. So I designed the system so that there is a readme file for each week, which gets parsed and presented on a dynamic path /journal/week#year# automatically. So I could just add to the readme file and commit. 

I ran into an error of using two routing libraries together- react-router-dom and wouter. I ended up using wouter for everything as it is lightweight and apt for a personal websites. I can now consistently journal my progress and stay motivated on this journey. 




---

## Key Takeaways



---

## Technologies Used

**React** - Frontend framework
