*“I wish it need not have happened in my time," said Frodo.*

*"So do I," said Gandalf, "and so do all who live to see such times. But that is not for them to decide. All we have to decide is what to do with the time that is given us.”*

## Mon, Oct 13 | Scaling in Software Systems 
System Design is the core for Software Engineering. It is asked during interviews. SDEs have been asked about designing chat-GPT and leetcode.  
I started studying **System Design Interview - An Insider's Guide by Alex Wu**. I got through the first chapter - where I learnt about vertical and horizontal scaling, Load balancers, load and response times, web tier, cache tier, CDNs,caching policies,  Database scaling, Redundancy in databases, Sharding, read replicas, leader-follower architecture, Single point of failure, CAP theorem, consistent Hashing, types of NoSQL databases, Data centers, stateful and stateless servers, Geo DNS, Messaging queues,  Error logging, monitoring and continuous Integration.  
I knew a lot of it from my time spent on Google cloud as well as just being a developer.  This was a great and comprehensive introduction. This was a very bird’s eye POV chapter.  
I have many questions - like how do you decide on the number of read replicas, how do software engineers choose between **AP, CP or CA databases** for their application. I am looking forward to the future chapters. 


## Tue, Oct 14 | Dynamic Routes, Parsing Mark down files and React 
My personal website is a static website. I built it to find a job fast. I thought of journaling my daily learnings as a way of bringing clarity, daily motivation and celebration. 
I wanted to add a weekly entry. To create a new webpage for every week is non-scalable. So I designed the system so that there is a readme file for each week, which gets parsed and presented on a dynamic path **/journal/week#year#** automatically. So I could just add to the readme file and commit. 

I ran into an error of using two routing libraries together- **react-router-dom** and **wouter**. I ended up using wouter for everything as it is lightweight and apt for a personal websites. I can now consistently journal my progress and stay motivated on this journey. 

## Wed, Oct 15 | Exploring Automatic Speech Recogntion (ASR) APIs
After exploring **NVIDIA’s Neural modules (NeMo)** toolkit for ASR models and speaker diarization models, tackling simulated data and pretrained models i.e Getting to the roots of the problem.  
I am now exploring Speech recognition APIs i.e. operating from the high level.  My task is to create a demo for automatic speech recognition. 
Google, Amazon, Microsoft all have APIs. Assembly Ai, Recall Ai are some of the start ups that have ASR APIs.  
The model that stood out most is **Whisper** by Open AI. Whisper is open source too. People have developed libraries on top of whisper to make whisper faster, to get live transcription and get diarized notes. I will create a demo with whisper and/or its many enhancements. The challenge is to get live transcription. 

## Thur, Oct 16 | Rest APIs HackerRank Test 
I am building my credibility on Linkedin so I took the REST API certification on HackerRank. It was only mildly challenging as I have worked with REST APIs before. It had two questions involving **GET requests.I took the test in Java.
   1. Http Client, request and response from the **java.net** libraries are the major players.
   2. The code threw an **Illegal character in opaque part** error. I recalled that the URLs should be encoded to make them safe for the GET request. Spaces and special characters are taken care of in this way.
   3. I parsed the response as a string and used regex to get the required info. In the future I want to explore parsing the json directly and looking up information with key-value pairs.
   4. **Modifiers** like final, static, private only work for class level variables and not for local variables declared inside a method. It does not make sense because the local methods live temporarily.  
I feel more confident in my ability to write REST APIs.

## Fri, Oct 17 | 
Two spaces for a new line in mark down files.  
Replace Set Inner HTML with a library that safely parses markdown files called **react-markdown**. 

---

## Technologies Used
**Java**   
**React**  
**RESTful**  
**ASR APIs**  